---
num: "h01"
desc: "Agile Basics, Part 1 of 3"
ready: true
assigned: 2019-01-07 14:00
due: 2019-01-10 14:00
---


Read the material at the following web page. It's relatively short.  
For the assignment, just this page&mdash;you don't need to follow each link (I'll let you know which links you need to follow and read below.)

* <https://www.agilealliance.org/agile101/>

<table>
<tr>
<td markdown="1">

You should read these sections on that page.  For this assignment, you do not need to follow the links to the values, 
twelve principles, or the Agile Manifesto.

* What is Agile?
* What is Agile Software Development?
* A Short History of Agile

</td>
<td markdown="1">

Also read the brief definitions of first four of the seven key Agile concepts listed, and follow and read the material linked for each of these four.  Each is brief.  (We'll do the next three on a future homework.)
* User Stories
* Daily Meeting (a.k.a. Standup, Scrum)
   * Follow the link to "The Three Questions"
* Incremental Development
* Iterative Development

</td>
</tr>
</table>

Then answer these questions:

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li style="margin-bottom:1em;" markdown="1">  An super easy question to get started: the set of practices known as *Agile Software Development* marks it founding moment as a meeting that produced something known as the Agile Manifesto.   

<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom:1em;" markdown="1">
(5 pts) The Agile Manifesto meeting was the result of developments in software that took place over which of these 
decades? (check only one answer)

<style>
.table-mc b {font-size: 200%; }
.table-mc td {padding: 1em; }
</style>

| <b>☐</b> 1960s | <b>☐</b> 1970s | <b>☐</b> 1980s | <b>☐</b> 1990s | <b>☐</b> 2000s | 
{: .table-mc}

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:1em;" markdown="1">

{% include box w="2in" h="0.5in" css="float:right; margin-right: 1in;"%}

(5 pts) The Agile Manifesto was produced at a meeting in Snowbird Utah in what year?

Please answer in the box at right:

</li>
</ol>

<div class="pagebreak">
</div>
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:1em;" markdown="1"> In an Agile "daily meeting" (also known as a standup or a scrum, what are the traditional "three questions"?

<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1">
(5 pts) 1st question:
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1">
(5 pts) 2nd question:
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1">
(5 pts) 3rd question:
</li>
</ol>


</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:10em;" markdown="1"> (15 pts) The daily scrum is not supposed to be a "status report" meeting.  What communication pattern is evident
in a scrum has turned into a status meeting, vs. a scrum that is serving it's intended purpose?

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:7em;" markdown="1">  (10 pts) A scrum is supposed to be "timeboxed".  What does it mean for a meeting to be timeboxed?

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:1em;" markdown="1">   Identify at least two strategies for keeping the scrum timeboxed.    


<ol>

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) Strategy 1:
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) Strategy 2:
</li>
</ol>

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:1em;" markdown="1"> Agile includes the concepts of *Incremental* Development and *Iterative* Development.   These are not the same thing, and each is an important concept.
 


<ol>

<li style="margin-bottom:6em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) What is the main idea behind Incremental Development?
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:6em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) What is the main idea behind Iterative Development?
</li>
</ol>

</li>

</ol>
