---
num: "h02"
desc: "Agile Basics, Part 2 of 3"
ready: true
assigned: 2018-01-14 14:00
due: 2018-01-16 14:00
---


Revisit this web page

* <https://www.agilealliance.org/agile101/>

For this assignment, focus on two more  the seven key Agile concepts listed on the right hand side of that page.
Each is brief.  (We'll do the remaining one, *Milestone Retrospectives* on a future homework.)

* Team
* Personas

Then answer these questions:

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li style="margin-bottom:1em;" markdown="1">
The Agile101 entry for Team indicates that "a common pitfall is to equate *group* and *team*, to think that a team results automatically from having people work together".

List at least three things that would distinguish a *project team* from a *project group*. You might find the material at this page helpful as well: <https://ucsb-cs48.github.io/topics/teams/>

<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) First thing
</li>
<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) Second thing
</li>
<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) Third thing
</li>
</ol>


<div class="pagebreak">
</div>


</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) The Agile101 page says: "A *team* in the Agile sense is a small group of people, assigned to the same project or effort, nearly all of them on a full-time basis. A small minority of team members may be part-time contributors, or may have competing responsibilities."  

The "full-time" aspect is a clear difference between the Agile Team definition given here, and what is feasible for a CS48 Project Team.   What are some ways that your team could mitigate the disadvantages of not being able to be together for a typical 36-40 hour work week?



</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) Write a short description of the application your team is building.
One or two sentences is enough; we just need some context for the rest of your answers.

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1">The description of "Personas" on the Agile101 site includes this
passage:

<blockquote>
Personas are concise and visual; a common layout is a single page including a photograph (from stock shots or magazine cutouts), a name and social or professional details: "Amanda Jones, 34, press officer at a major food retailing organization, etc."
</blockquote>

Read more about personas, and then come up with a brief description of a persona for YOUR specific app.  

<ol>
  
<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) What is their name and age?
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) This user comes to your product with some needs and/or desires that motiviate them to want or need your product.    List those.

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) Briefly describe an interaction that your persona has with your product that causes them to have at least one of their needs met, or at least one of their desires fulfilled.  Use their name as you tell the story.

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) Is there a way that this person can get this need met now, without your product?  If not, why not?  If there is a way, why is your product a better way?
</li>



</ol>

</li>

</ol>
