---
num: "h04"
desc: "Agile Basics, Part 3 of 3"
ready: false
assigned: 2019-01-24 16:00
due: 2019-01-30 14:00
---

<div style="display:none;">https://ucsb-cs48.github.io/w19/hwk/h04/</div>

Once again, visit this web page

* <https://www.agilealliance.org/agile101/>

For this assignment, we will return to  these sections on that page, but this time, we WILL follow the links to
the *values* and  *Agile Manifesto*.

* What is Agile?
* What is Agile Software Development?
* A Short History of Agile

Read those sections, and pages linked to by the keywords *values*, *Agile Manifesto*.  Reading the *12 principles* may also help, but those will be a focus of a future assignment.

Then answer these questions:

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> The description of Agile includes both mention of the Agile **mindset** as well as Agile **methodologies**.


<ol>

<li style="margin-bottom:0em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) To the best of your understanding and in your own words (not just copying down words from the articles), what is the essence of the Agile mindset?   (Answer as if you were asked this question in an interview for an internship or job at a software company.)

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) What are three examples of Agile methodologies?  You can just name them; you don't have to explain each in detail.

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:1em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) What makes these (the answers to your previous question) methodologies rather than part of the Agile Mindset?

</li>

</ol>

<div class="pagebreak">
</div>

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:1em;" markdown="1"> The Agile Manifesto states:

<blockquote markdown="1">
We are uncovering better ways of developing software by doing it and helping others do it. Through this work we have come to value:
* Individuals and interactions over processes and tools
* Working software over comprehensive documentation
* Customer collaboration over contract negotiation
* Responding to change over following a plan

That is, while there is value in the items on the right, we value the items on the left more.
</blockquote>


<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom:10em;" markdown="1">
(15 pts) Tell a (very) short story (or it could be something that really happened, or you can just make it up) where  a
  team does the opposite of the first of the four values of Agile manifesto, i.e. it values processes and tools over individuals and interactions.  If it's a real story, change the names to protect folks' privacy, but use some actual names n your story, e.g. Alice, Bob, Carol, David.   Tell enough of the story that we can see the impact of the team's choice to value processes and tools over individuals and interactions.

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:10em;" markdown="1">
(15 pts) Now tell the story again, but this time explain how it might have turned out differently if the team chose to value individuals and interactions over processes and tools.
</li>


</ol>

</li>

<li markdown="1"> The authors included these words at the end of the manifesto.

"That is, while there is value in the items on the right, we value the items on the left more."
  
Some have pointed out that there is a danger in enthusiastically embracing the values of the Agile Manifesto without keeping this last line in mind.   Suppose you were asked to argue that point of view in a debate.  What arguments would you make for the value of each of the items on the right?

<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" > (5 pts) Value of processes and tools
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" > (5 pts) Value of comprehensive documentation
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" > (5 pts) Value of contract negotiation
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" > (5 pts) Value of following a plan
</li>

</ol>
  
</li>


<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:15em;" > (10 pts) Now suppose you were asked to choose one of the four statements, and present an argument that while the item on the right has value (as you argued above), the value on the left has *more* value.  What would you say in support of this position?
  
</li>

</ol>
