---
num: "h05"
desc: "More on Agile"
ready: false
assigned: 2019-01-30 14:00
due: 2019-02-04 14:00
---

<div style="display:none;">https://ucsb-cs48.github.io/w19/hwk/h05/</div>

As before, the web page <https://www.agilealliance.org/agile101/> can be consulted as a reference for topics
having to do with Agile.

In this homework, we'll review the *manifesto* and focus on the *12 principles* 




<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li style="margin-bottom:0em;" markdown="1">  The Agile Manifesto states that the signatories value "Individuals and interactions over processes and tools", but goes on to say that the items "on the right" such as "processes and tools" do have value.  

Your instructor has reiterated that by pointing out that all of the Agile "processes and tools" are a means to an end; doing them may help you get to the goals of having a productive, harmonious team that delivers quality software while taking delight in its work.  Using the tool doesn't guarantee the result, but it can help.

In this exercise, we'll try to identify the links between processes and tools and a few of the twelve principles.

<ol>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) Read principle 1.  What is the connection between this principle, and the process/tools known as "user story mapping" and "minimum viable product".

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) Read principle 6.   What is the connection between this principle, and the process/tool known as the "Agile Standup"?

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) Read principle 12.   What is the connection between this principle, and the process/tool known as the "Retrospective"?

</li>



</ol>

<div class="pagebreak">
</div>

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:1em;" markdown="1"> The Agile Manifesto states:

<blockquote markdown="1">
We are uncovering better ways of developing software by doing it and helping others do it. Through this work we have come to value:
* Individuals and interactions over processes and tools
* Working software over comprehensive documentation
* Customer collaboration over contract negotiation
* Responding to change over following a plan

That is, while there is value in the items on the right, we value the items on the left more.
</blockquote>


<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom:10em;" markdown="1">
(15 pts) Tell a (very) short story (or it could be something that really happened, or you can just make it up) where  a
  team does the opposite of the first of the four values of Agile manifesto, i.e. it values processes and tools over individuals and interactions.  If it's a real story, change the names to protect folks' privacy, but use some actual names n your story, e.g. Alice, Bob, Carol, David.   Tell enough of the story that we can see the impact of the team's choice to value processes and tools over individuals and interactions.

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:10em;" markdown="1">
(15 pts) Now tell the story again, but this time explain how it might have turned out differently if the team chose to value individuals and interactions over processes and tools.
</li>


</ol>

</li>

<li markdown="1"> TBD


<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" > (5 pts) TBD
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" > (5 pts) TBD
</li>



</ol>
  
</li>




</ol>
