---
num: "h12"
desc: "ACM Code of Ethics"
ready: false
assigned: 2019-02-11 14:00
due: 2019-02-18 14:00
---

<div style="display:none;">https://ucsb-cs48.github.io/w19/hwk/h07/</div>

UC Santa Barbara is an accredited US University, accredited through the normal process for accrediting higher education programs in the United States [(wikipedia article)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Higher_education_accreditation_in_the_United_States).
In addition, the degree programs in the College of Engineering currently pursue a additional supplementary accreditation
known as ABET.  Not all B.S. programs in Computer Science at US universities pursue this additional accreditation, though many do.

One requirement for ABET accreditation is that students can 
*"Recognize professional responsibilities and make informed judgments in computing practice based on legal and ethical principles"*.

Accordingly, in this assignment you'll be asked to read the Code of Ethics of the **Association for Computing Machinery (ACM)** which according to its website, is "the world's largest educational and scientific computing society".

* Please read: <https://www.acm.org/code-of-ethics>

Then answer these questions

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li style="margin-bottom:1em;" markdown="1">  (5 pts) True or False (mark one below)

When faced with an ethical problem, you can turn to the ACM Code of Ethics and apply it as a kind of "algorithm" for ethical decision making.

<style>
.table-mc b {font-size: 200%; }
.table-mc td {padding: 1em; }
</style>

| <b>☐</b> True | <b>☐</b> False |
{: .table-mc}

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:0em;" markdown="1"> (5 pts) Explain your answer to the previous problem (i.e. if you marked "true", explain how the algorithm works.  If you marked "false", explain why the ACM code of ethics cannot be applied in an algorithmic fashion.)

<div class="pagebreak">
</div>

</li>

<li markdown="1"> The ACM Code of Ethics contains passage that refer to both legal and ethical principles.  

Legal principles have the force of law, either civil or criminal law
* Violations of civil law can result in lawsuits, where companies or individuals must pay damages
* Violations of criminal law can result in fines/sanctions for companies or individuals, or prison sentences for individuals held  responsible for the crimes.

A precise definition of "Ethics" is a subject worthy of an entire course.  Philosophers have debated this throughout human history, and likely will never fully come to a final consensus.  However, in general discussions of ethics refer to acting out of a sense of what is moral, just, and right, according to one's conscience, rather than acting out of compulsion or self-interest. 

In this context, we'll adopt a simplified definition, based on the first paragraph of the ACM Code of Ethics:

> Computing professionals' actions change the world. To act responsibly, they should reflect upon the wider impacts of their work, consistently supporting the public good. The ACM Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct ("the Code") expresses the conscience of the profession.

We can therefore, operationally define Ethics for purposes of this assignment as rules and principles that "guide computing professionals' actions" towards "consistently supporting the public good", out of a sense of duty to act responsibly.   

<ol>

<li style="margin-bottom:15em;" markdown="1"> (20 pts) Identify a **legal** principle referred to in the ACM Code of Ethics.  In your answer:

* Indicate the section number from which the principle comes (e.g. 1.1, 1.2, 2.1, etc.)
* State the principle briefly
* Present a convincing argument that it is a **legal** principle (in contradistiction to being an ethical principle).
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:15em;" markdown="1"> (20 pts) Give an example of a situation that arises in the professional practice of computing where this legal principle arises.
</li>


<li style="margin-bottom:15em;" markdown="1"> (20 pts) Identify an **ethical** principle referred to in the ACM Code of Ethics.  In your answer:

* Indicate the section number from which the principle comes (e.g. 1.1, 1.2, 2.1, etc.)
* State the principle briefly
* Present a convincing argument that it is an **ethical** principle (in contradistiction to being a legal principle).
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:15em;" markdown="1"> (20 pts) Give an example of a situation that arises in the professional practice of computing where this ethical principle arises.
</li>

</ol>

